I) Start Up

  1. Select Start to initiate setup menu.
  2. Select color theme to choose game color theme
  3. Select number of ships to play with.
  4. Select board size
  5. Place ships on board to initiate battle.
  6. When it is your turn select a position on the board to attack.
  7. Player with no ships remaining loses.
  8. Have fun.

II) Game Play

  1. Each ship occupies a number of squares on the grid, and all ships must 
    occupy distinct squares.
    (i.e. no two ships can occupy the same square). 

  2. Once all of your ships have been placed on the grid, the game begins 
     and progresses in a series of rounds.

  3.  The game interface presents you both with a view of your own grid.
      (i.e. the grid on which you placed your ships) and a tracking grid. 

  4. The tracking grid will track which squares you have attacked on the 
     opponent's grid. 

  5. You are not able to directly view the grid on which your opponent has 
     placed their ships (and likewise your opponent cannot see your grid).

  6. In each round the following takes place:

    a) you select a square on your tracking grid that you have not 
       previously selected to attack.

    b) your AI opponent likewise selects a square to attack on 
       your grid.

    c) the square you targeted on your tracking grid is updated. 

    d) If the square attacked contained a ship, the square is 
       updated to be colored red. Otherwise, the square is updated 
       to be colored white. 

    e) The square that was targeted by your opponent is likewise 
       updated on your grid. 

    f) If the square contained a ship, that square is updated to be 
       colored red. 

    g) Otherwise the square is updated to be colored white.

    h) If all of the squares occupied by a ship are attacked, then the 
       ship sinks (and the sinking of the ship is not shown to the players).

    i) Once all ships of either or both players are sunk, the game ends.

    j) The player whose ships have sunk loses and the other player wins.

    k) There will be no draws. 
       You either win or lose.